>> Richard Feldman: Let's move on and
talk about some function
guarantees that we have in Elm.
So one guarantee that we have is every Elm
function if you give it the same arguments
you're gonna get the same
return value no matter what.
Same arguments,
same return value no exceptions.
So here's an example of a function in
JavaScript that does not have that
characteristic.
You call Math.random with the same
argument or just say no arguments.
You expect to get back
a not the same result.
In fact,
if you didn't give back the same result,
Math.random would be very boring and
not useful.
It's a very important property of that
function that it gives you back different
results every time you call it.
Or at least most of the time you call it.
However, because elm has this guarantee,
this can not possibly be the API for
Elm's randomness.
This just wouldn't work because it
doesn't fit with Elm's guarantee.
So, instead we have something
called random.generate
which works a little bit differently.
So to illustrate sort of how
random.generate works and how it's
different from math.random, let's say
that we're going to implement a feature.
So, you know how, like, in chat apps a lot
of the time you'll start up the chat app
and the first thing it'll do is it'll
show you a randomly chosen greeting.
Like, hey, how's it going?
Or, today's a nice day.
Or, you should get outside more.
Something like that.
So let's see if we wanted to pick one of
those at random to display to the user.
Well just by the type
of this function here,
pickGreeting list string to string,
I could tell you that this is not
going to give me a different
greeting every time I call it.
In fact I can be quite sure that if I give
it the same list of greetings it's gonna
choose the same one every single time,
because again if you call an Elm function,
pass the same arguments you have to
get the same results every time,
that's a rule of the language.
So if I call it passing the same fixed
list of greetings, well, I'm just,
every user is gonna see that
same greeting every single time.
It's unavoidable,
that's just a design characteristic.
So that sort of can't be
how we're gonna do this.
Okay, what we can do
instead is we can do this.
pickGreeting takes a list of strings,
sort of the pool of potential
greetings to show the user, and
it's gonna return a Cmd Msg.
What is a command?
Okay so going back to our Elm architecture
diagram just a quick recap of how
we've ended up where we are right now.
We saw model, view, and update and
how they relate to one another,
view returns some HTMLs such as like,
you know, an h1 that has the text feed.
Potentially those HTML
values have handlers on
them that respond to user inputs by
sending messages through update.
Initially we had our messages being
described as records with description and
data but we kinda saw that that
didn't really scale very well.
So we ended up refactoring it
a little bit later to this,
where now we have custom types for
this and variance that hold onto whatever
additional metadata we need about
the message that update's going
to need to use with the current
model to return a new model.
Okay, that's where we are right now.
Commands essentially introduce
something new to this.
It gives update a new capability.
So previously, all update could do is it
would require a new model, and that's it.
It would say, give me a message
on the current model, and
I will give you back the new
model to transition to.
It's still gonna be able to do that in
this new world we're about to move to, but
it's gonna have one more
addition capability.
And it's gonna be based
around this idea of the Msg.
So Msg fundamentally its job is it's
how the Elm Runtime talks to update.
Up to this point, the only thing it's
had to say to update is here is some
user interaction that happened,
like the user clicked a thing.
We saw on input in a previous exercise
when the user was typing into a thing.
Fundamentally, the only thing the Elm
Runtime has had to say to update is,
here is a piece of user
interaction that happened.
Cmds introduce a second thing that
the Elm Runtime can say to update.
So this is something that goes
essentially from update and
then to the Elm Runtime and then
the Runtime sends a message to update as
a result of what update
said to the Runtime.
So whereas the user interaction case is
coming from view, view it says here's
my message that I want the Runtime to send
to update in response to this user input.
Commands come from update.
So this is update saying hey I want you,
the Runtime, to go run this command.
And when you're done, give me back this
message, and I'll continue on from there.
So, essentially,
a command is a description of
something that you want done.
It's not a side effect, in the sense that,
when you instantiate a command,
nothing happens.
If you want, you can instantiate a
thousand commands in a row inside update.
Right away and nothing will
happen as we lost any of them.
It's basically just a description written
down and saying, hey dear Runtime,
please do this and
then tell me about what happens.
Thank you.
And when update returns, now it's going
to return a tupple of the model, so
just like before.
So we're gonna still be
returning the new model.
As well as optionally
some commands to run.
And so the Runtime is gonna say okay
I know what to do with the new model,
do the same thing as before,
pass it to view, continue that cycle.
But also when we look at this
command you gave me, and
the commands is gonna tell me possibly to
do something, so what's we're building
up to is we're going to use it for
a http request, but in this case,
we will also use if for randomness So
random.generate gives us back a command
message that says hey, Runtime,
go randomly produce one of these values.
Randomly pick from one of these greetings.
Yeah, you can choose
a different one every time.
I don't care, but when you're done,
send me a message telling
me which one you picked.
>> Richard Feldman: And so in this way
we sort of isolated that unpredictable,
that the side effect-y kind of
element inside of the Runtime.
It's the Runtime's job
to do all of that stuff.
Update is not concerned with that.
Update just says here is the description
of what I want done, and
every single time you call
update with the same message and
model you are 100% guaranteed to get
back the same model as a result, or
the same model value as a result and
the same command value as a result.
So update itself still obeys
this guarantee that Elm has.
Same argument, same result.
But we're still able to end up
with a randomly selected greeting.
So, as an example here we got
pickGreeting, has a list of strings,
it returns a command message-,update can
call this function, return that command,
and say, hey, Runtime, when you're done,
give me back a SetGreeting5 message.
And I'm gonna process that the same way I
would process any message that I got from
the view.